---
title: Modules
layout: default
---

<!-- This file was automatically generated by ./_tools/regenerate-module-list on Tue Oct 23 13:58:55 +0100 2012 -->

Name | User Modes | Channel Modes | Extended Bans | Commands | Description 
---- | ---------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | -----------
[m_abbreviation](/wiki/Modules/abbreviation.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides the ability to abbreviate commands a-la BBC BASIC keywords.
[m_alias](/wiki/Modules/alias.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides aliases of commands.
[m_allowinvite](/wiki/Modules/allowinvite.html) | - | A | A | - | Provides support for channel mode +A, allowing /invite freely on a channel (and extban A to allow specific users it)
[m_alltime](/wiki/Modules/alltime.html) | - | - | - | ALLTIME | Display timestamps from all servers connected to the network
[m_auditorium](/wiki/Modules/auditorium.html) | - | u | - | - | Allows for auditorium channels (+u) where nobody can see others joining and parting or the nick list
[m_autoop](/wiki/Modules/autoop.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides support for the +w channel mode, autoop list
[m_banexception](/wiki/Modules/banexception.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides support for the +e channel mode
[m_banredirect](/wiki/Modules/banredirect.html) | - | - | - | - | Allows an extended ban (+b) syntax redirecting banned users to another channel
[m_blockamsg](/wiki/Modules/blockamsg.html) | - | - | - | - | Attempt to block /amsg, at least some of the irritating mIRC scripts.
[m_blockcaps](/wiki/Modules/blockcaps.html) | - | B | B | - | Provides support to block all-CAPS channel messages and notices
[m_blockcolor](/wiki/Modules/blockcolor.html) | - | c | c | - | Provides channel mode +c to block color
[m_botmode](/wiki/Modules/botmode.html) | B | - | - | - | Provides user mode +B to mark the user as a bot
[m_callerid](/wiki/Modules/callerid.html) | g | - | - | ACCEPT | Implementation of callerid, usermode +g, /accept
[m_cap](/wiki/Modules/cap.html) | - | - | - | CAP | Provides the CAP negotiation mechanism seen in ratbox-derived ircds
[m_cban](/wiki/Modules/cban.html) | - | - | - | CBAN | Gives /cban, aka C:lines. Think Q:lines, for channels.
[m_censor](/wiki/Modules/censor.html) | G | G | - | - | Provides user and channel +G mode
[m_cgiirc](/wiki/Modules/cgiirc.html) | - | - | - | WEBIRC | Change user's hosts connecting from known CGI:IRC hosts
[m_chancreate](/wiki/Modules/chancreate.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides snomasks 'j' and 'J', to which notices about newly created channels are sent
[m_chanfilter](/wiki/Modules/chanfilter.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides channel-specific censor lists (like mode +G but varies from channel to channel)
[m_chanhistory](/wiki/Modules/chanhistory.html) | - | H | - | - | Provides channel history for a given number of lines
[m_chanlog](/wiki/Modules/chanlog.html) | - | - | - | - | Logs snomask output to channel(s).
[m_channames](/wiki/Modules/channames.html) | - | - | - | - | Implements config tags which allow changing characters allowed in channel names
[m_channelban](/wiki/Modules/channelban.html) | - | - | j | - | Implements extban +b j: - matching channel bans
[m_chanprotect](/wiki/Modules/chanprotect.html) | - | a q | - | - | Provides channel modes +a and +q
[m_check](/wiki/Modules/check.html) | - | - | - | CHECK | Provides the /CHECK command to retrieve information on a user, channel, hostname or IP address
[m_chghost](/wiki/Modules/chghost.html) | - | - | - | CHGHOST | Provides support for the CHGHOST command
[m_chgident](/wiki/Modules/chgident.html) | - | - | - | CHGIDENT | Provides support for the CHGIDENT command
[m_chgname](/wiki/Modules/chgname.html) | - | - | - | CHGNAME | Provides support for the CHGNAME command
[m_cloaking](/wiki/Modules/cloaking.html) | x | - | - | CLOAK | Provides masking of user hostnames
[m_clones](/wiki/Modules/clones.html) | - | - | - | CLONES | Provides the /CLONES command to retrieve information on clones.
[m_close](/wiki/Modules/close.html) | - | - | - | CLOSE | Provides /CLOSE functionality
[m_commonchans](/wiki/Modules/commonchans.html) | c | - | - | - | Adds user mode +c, which if set, users must be on a common channel with you to private message you
[m_conn_join](/wiki/Modules/conn_join.html) | - | - | - | - | Forces users to join the specified channel(s) on connect
[m_conn_umodes](/wiki/Modules/conn_umodes.html) | - | - | - | - | Sets (and unsets) modes on users when they connect
[m_conn_waitpong](/wiki/Modules/conn_waitpong.html) | - | - | - | - | Forces connecting clients to send a PONG message back to the server before they can complete their connection
[m_connectban](/wiki/Modules/connectban.html) | - | - | - | - | Throttles the connections of IP ranges who try to connect flood.
[m_connflood](/wiki/Modules/connflood.html) | - | - | - | - | Connection throttle
[m_customprefix](/wiki/Modules/customprefix.html) | - | - | - | - | Allows custom prefix modes to be created.
[m_customtitle](/wiki/Modules/customtitle.html) | - | - | - | TITLE | Provides the TITLE command which allows setting of CUSTOM WHOIS TITLE line
[m_cycle](/wiki/Modules/cycle.html) | - | - | - | CYCLE | Provides command CYCLE, acts as a server-side HOP command to part and rejoin a channel.
[m_dccallow](/wiki/Modules/dccallow.html) | - | - | - | DCCALLOW | Provides support for the /DCCALLOW command
[m_deaf](/wiki/Modules/deaf.html) | d | - | - | - | Provides usermode +d to block channel messages and channel notices
[m_delayjoin](/wiki/Modules/delayjoin.html) | - | D | - | - | Allows for delay-join channels (+D) where users don't appear to join until they speak
[m_delaymsg](/wiki/Modules/delaymsg.html) | - | d | - | - | Provides channelmode +d <int>, to deny messages to a channel until <int> seconds.
[m_denychans](/wiki/Modules/denychans.html) | - | - | - | - | Implements config tags which allow blocking of joins to channels
[m_devoice](/wiki/Modules/devoice.html) | - | - | - | DEVOICE | Provides voiced users with the ability to devoice themselves.
[m_dnsbl](/wiki/Modules/dnsbl.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides handling of DNS blacklists
[m_exemptchanops](/wiki/Modules/exemptchanops.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides the ability to allow channel operators to be exempt from certain modes.
[m_filter](/wiki/Modules/filter.html) | - | - | - | FILTER | Text (spam) filtering
[m_gecosban](/wiki/Modules/gecosban.html) | - | - | r | - | Implements extban +b r: - realname (gecos) bans
[m_geoip](/wiki/Modules/geoip.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides a way to restrict users by country using GeoIP lookup
[m_globalload](/wiki/Modules/globalload.html) | - | - | - | GLOADMODULE GRELOADMODULE GUNLOADMODULE | Allows global loading of a module.
[m_globops](/wiki/Modules/globops.html) | - | - | - | GLOBOPS | Provides support for GLOBOPS and snomask +g
[m_halfop](/wiki/Modules/halfop.html) | - | h | - | - | Channel half-operator mode provider
[m_helpop](/wiki/Modules/helpop.html) | h | - | - | HELPOP | Provides the /HELPOP command for useful information
[m_hidechans](/wiki/Modules/hidechans.html) | I | - | - | - | Provides support for hiding channels with user mode +I
[m_hideoper](/wiki/Modules/hideoper.html) | H | - | - | - | Provides support for hiding oper status with user mode +H
[m_hostchange](/wiki/Modules/hostchange.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides masking of user hostnames in a different way to m_cloaking
[m_httpd](/wiki/Modules/httpd.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides HTTP serving facilities to modules
[m_httpd_acl](/wiki/Modules/httpd_acl.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides access control lists (passwording of resources, ip restrictions etc) to m_httpd.so dependent modules
[m_httpd_config](/wiki/Modules/httpd_config.html) | - | - | - | - | Allows for the server configuration to be viewed over HTTP via m_httpd.so
[m_httpd_stats](/wiki/Modules/httpd_stats.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides statistics over HTTP via m_httpd.so
[m_ident](/wiki/Modules/ident.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides support for RFC1413 ident lookups
[m_inviteexception](/wiki/Modules/inviteexception.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides support for the +I channel mode
[m_ircv3](/wiki/Modules/ircv3.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides support for extended-join, away-notify and account-notify CAP capabilities
[m_joinflood](/wiki/Modules/joinflood.html) | - | j | - | - | Provides channel mode +j (join flood protection)
[m_jumpserver](/wiki/Modules/jumpserver.html) | - | - | - | JUMPSERVER | Provides support for the RPL_REDIR numeric and the /JUMPSERVER command.
[m_kicknorejoin](/wiki/Modules/kicknorejoin.html) | - | J | - | - | Provides channel mode +J (delay rejoin after kick)
[m_knock](/wiki/Modules/knock.html) | - | K | - | KNOCK | Provides support for /KNOCK and channel mode +K
[m_ldapauth](/wiki/Modules/ldapauth.html) | - | - | - | - | Allow/Deny connections based upon answer from LDAP server
[m_ldapoper](/wiki/Modules/ldapoper.html) | - | - | - | - | Adds the ability to authenticate opers via LDAP
[m_lockserv](/wiki/Modules/lockserv.html) | - | - | - | LOCKSERV UNLOCKSERV | Allows locking of the server to stop all incoming connections till unlocked again
[m_maphide](/wiki/Modules/maphide.html) | - | - | - | - | Hide /MAP and /LINKS in the same form as ircu (mostly useless)
[m_md5](/wiki/Modules/md5.html) | - | - | - | - | Allows for MD5 encrypted oper passwords
[m_messageflood](/wiki/Modules/messageflood.html) | - | f | - | - | Provides channel mode +f (message flood protection)
[m_mlock](/wiki/Modules/mlock.html) | - | - | - | - | Implements the ability to have server-side MLOCK enforcement.
[m_mssql](/wiki/Modules/mssql.html) | - | - | - | - | MsSQL provider
[m_muteban](/wiki/Modules/muteban.html) | - | - | m | - | Implements extban +b m: - mute bans
[m_mysql](/wiki/Modules/mysql.html) | - | - | - | - | SQL Service Provider module for all other m_sql* modules
[m_namedmodes](/wiki/Modules/namedmodes.html) | - | Z | - | PROP | Provides the ability to manipulate modes via long names.
[m_namesx](/wiki/Modules/namesx.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides the NAMESX (CAP multi-prefix) capability.
[m_nationalchars](/wiki/Modules/nationalchars.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides an ability to have non-RFC1459 nicks & support for national CASEMAPPING
[m_nickflood](/wiki/Modules/nickflood.html) | - | F | - | - | Provides channel mode +F (nick flood protection)
[m_nicklock](/wiki/Modules/nicklock.html) | - | - | - | NICKLOCK NICKUNLOCK | Provides the NICKLOCK command, allows an oper to chage a users nick and lock them to it until they quit
[m_noctcp](/wiki/Modules/noctcp.html) | - | C | C | - | Provides channel mode +C to block CTCPs
[m_nokicks](/wiki/Modules/nokicks.html) | - | Q | Q | - | Provides channel mode +Q to prevent kicks on the channel.
[m_nonicks](/wiki/Modules/nonicks.html) | - | N | N | - | Provides support for channel mode +N & extban +b N: which prevents nick changes on channel
[m_nonotice](/wiki/Modules/nonotice.html) | - | T | T | - | Provides channel mode +T to block notices to the channel
[m_nopartmsg](/wiki/Modules/nopartmsg.html) | - | - | p | - | Implements extban +b p: - part message bans
[m_ojoin](/wiki/Modules/ojoin.html) | - | Y | - | OJOIN | Provides the /ojoin command, which joins a user to a channel on network business, and gives them +Y, which makes them immune to kick / deop and so on.
[m_operchans](/wiki/Modules/operchans.html) | - | O | O | - | Provides support for oper-only chans via the +O channel mode
[m_operjoin](/wiki/Modules/operjoin.html) | - | - | - | - | Forces opers to join the specified channel(s) on oper-up
[m_operlevels](/wiki/Modules/operlevels.html) | - | - | - | - | Gives each oper type a 'level', cannot kill opers 'above' your level.
[m_operlog](/wiki/Modules/operlog.html) | - | - | - | - | A module which logs all oper commands to the ircd log at default loglevel.
[m_opermodes](/wiki/Modules/opermodes.html) | - | - | - | - | Sets (and unsets) modes on opers when they oper up
[m_opermotd](/wiki/Modules/opermotd.html) | - | - | - | OPERMOTD | Shows a message to opers after oper-up, adds /opermotd
[m_operprefix](/wiki/Modules/operprefix.html) | - | y | - | - | Gives opers cmode +y which provides a staff prefix.
[m_override](/wiki/Modules/override.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides support for allowing opers to override certain things.
[m_passforward](/wiki/Modules/passforward.html) | - | - | - | - | Forwards a password users can send on connect (for example for NickServ identification).
[m_password_hash](/wiki/Modules/password_hash.html) | - | - | - | MKPASSWD | Allows for hashed oper passwords
[m_permchannels](/wiki/Modules/permchannels.html) | - | P | - | - | Provides support for channel mode +P to provide permanent channels
[m_pgsql](/wiki/Modules/pgsql.html) | - | - | - | - | PostgreSQL Service Provider module for all other m_sql* modules, uses v2 of the SQL API
[m_randquote](/wiki/Modules/randquote.html) | - | - | - | RANDQUOTE | Provides random quotes on connect.
[m_redirect](/wiki/Modules/redirect.html) | L | L | - | - | Provides channel mode +L (limit redirection) and usermode +L (no forced redirection)
[m_regex_glob](/wiki/Modules/regex_glob.html) | - | - | - | - | Regex module using plain wildcard matching.
[m_regex_pcre](/wiki/Modules/regex_pcre.html) | - | - | - | - | Regex Provider Module for PCRE
[m_regex_posix](/wiki/Modules/regex_posix.html) | - | - | - | - | Regex Provider Module for POSIX Regular Expressions
[m_regex_stdlib](/wiki/Modules/regex_stdlib.html) | - | - | - | - | Regex Provider Module for std::regex Regular Expressions
[m_regex_tre](/wiki/Modules/regex_tre.html) | - | - | - | - | Regex Provider Module for TRE Regular Expressions
[m_regonlycreate](/wiki/Modules/regonlycreate.html) | - | - | - | - | Prevents users whose nicks are not registered from creating new channels
[m_remove](/wiki/Modules/remove.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides a /remove command, this is mostly an alternative to /kick, except makes users appear to have parted the channel
[m_restrictchans](/wiki/Modules/restrictchans.html) | - | - | - | - | Only opers may create new channels if this module is loaded
[m_restrictmsg](/wiki/Modules/restrictmsg.html) | - | - | - | - | Forbids users from messaging each other. Users may still message opers and opers may message other opers.
[m_ripemd160](/wiki/Modules/ripemd160.html) | - | - | - | - | Allows for RIPEMD-160 encrypted oper passwords
[m_rline](/wiki/Modules/rline.html) | - | - | - | RLINE | RLINE: Regexp user banning.
[m_sajoin](/wiki/Modules/sajoin.html) | - | - | - | SAJOIN | Provides command SAJOIN to allow opers to force-join users to channels
[m_sakick](/wiki/Modules/sakick.html) | - | - | - | SAKICK | Provides a SAKICK command
[m_samode](/wiki/Modules/samode.html) | - | - | - | SAMODE | Provides command SAMODE to allow opers to change modes on channels and users
[m_sanick](/wiki/Modules/sanick.html) | - | - | - | SANICK | Provides support for SANICK command
[m_sapart](/wiki/Modules/sapart.html) | - | - | - | SAPART | Provides command SAPART to force-part users from a channel.
[m_saquit](/wiki/Modules/saquit.html) | - | - | - | SAQUIT | Provides support for an SAQUIT command, exits user with a reason
[m_sasl](/wiki/Modules/sasl.html) | - | - | - | AUTHENTICATE SASL | Provides support for IRC Authentication Layer (aka: atheme SASL) via AUTHENTICATE.
[m_satopic](/wiki/Modules/satopic.html) | - | - | - | SATOPIC | Provides a SATOPIC command
[m_securelist](/wiki/Modules/securelist.html) | - | - | - | - | A module overriding /list, and making it safe - stop those sendq problems.
[m_seenicks](/wiki/Modules/seenicks.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides support for seeing local and remote nickchanges via snomasks 'n' and 'N'.
[m_serverban](/wiki/Modules/serverban.html) | - | - | s | - | Implements extban +b s: - server name bans
[m_services_account](/wiki/Modules/services_account.html) | R r | M R r | R U | - | Provides support for ircu-style services accounts, including chmode +R, etc.
[m_servprotect](/wiki/Modules/servprotect.html) | k | - | - | - | Provides usermode +k to protect services from kicks, kills and mode changes.
[m_sethost](/wiki/Modules/sethost.html) | - | - | - | SETHOST | Provides support for the SETHOST command
[m_setident](/wiki/Modules/setident.html) | - | - | - | SETIDENT | Provides support for the SETIDENT command
[m_setidle](/wiki/Modules/setidle.html) | - | - | - | SETIDLE | Allows opers to set their idle time
[m_setname](/wiki/Modules/setname.html) | - | - | - | SETNAME | Provides support for the SETNAME command
[m_sha256](/wiki/Modules/sha256.html) | - | - | - | - | Allows for SHA-256 encrypted oper passwords
[m_showwhois](/wiki/Modules/showwhois.html) | W | - | - | WHOISNOTICE | Allows opers to set +W to see when a user uses WHOIS on them
[m_shun](/wiki/Modules/shun.html) | - | - | - | SHUN | Provides the /SHUN command, which stops a user from executing all except configured commands.
[m_silence](/wiki/Modules/silence.html) | - | - | - | SILENCE SVSSILENCE | Provides support for the /SILENCE command
[m_spanningtree](/wiki/Modules/spanningtree.html) | - | - | - | RCONNECT RSQUIT | Provides a spanning tree server link protocol
[m_sqlauth](/wiki/Modules/sqlauth.html) | - | - | - | - | Allow/Deny connections based upon an arbitrary SQL table
[m_sqlite3](/wiki/Modules/sqlite3.html) | - | - | - | - | sqlite3 provider
[m_sqloper](/wiki/Modules/sqloper.html) | - | - | - | - | Allows storage of oper credentials in an SQL table
[m_ssl_gnutls](/wiki/Modules/ssl_gnutls.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides SSL support for clients
[m_ssl_openssl](/wiki/Modules/ssl_openssl.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides SSL support for clients
[m_sslinfo](/wiki/Modules/sslinfo.html) | - | - | - | SSLINFO | Provides SSL metadata, including /WHOIS information and /SSLINFO command
[m_sslmodes](/wiki/Modules/sslmodes.html) | - | z | z | - | Provides channel mode +z to allow for Secure/SSL only channels
[m_stripcolor](/wiki/Modules/stripcolor.html) | S | S | S | - | Provides channel +S mode (strip ansi color)
[m_svshold](/wiki/Modules/svshold.html) | - | - | - | SVSHOLD | Implements SVSHOLD. Like Q:Lines, but can only be added/removed by Services.
[m_swhois](/wiki/Modules/swhois.html) | - | - | - | SWHOIS | Provides the SWHOIS command which allows setting of arbitrary WHOIS lines
[m_testnet](/wiki/Modules/testnet.html) | - | - | - | TEST | Provides a module for testing the server while linked in a network
[m_timedbans](/wiki/Modules/timedbans.html) | - | - | - | TBAN | Adds timed bans
[m_tline](/wiki/Modules/tline.html) | - | - | - | TLINE | Provides /tline command used to test who a mask matches
[m_topiclock](/wiki/Modules/topiclock.html) | - | - | - | SVSTOPIC | *Description missing*
[m_uhnames](/wiki/Modules/uhnames.html) | - | - | - | - | Provides the UHNAMES facility.
[m_uninvite](/wiki/Modules/uninvite.html) | - | - | - | UNINVITE | Provides the UNINVITE command which lets users un-invite other users from channels (!)
[m_userip](/wiki/Modules/userip.html) | - | - | - | USERIP | Provides support for USERIP command
[m_vhost](/wiki/Modules/vhost.html) | - | - | - | VHOST | Provides masking of user hostnames via traditional /VHOST command
[m_watch](/wiki/Modules/watch.html) | - | - | - | SVSWATCH WATCH | Provides support for the /WATCH command
[m_xline_db](/wiki/Modules/xline_db.html) | - | - | - | - | Keeps a dynamic log of all XLines created, and stores them in a seperate conf file (xline.db).
